[Music]
hello and welcome thank you for popping
into my channel if you are new here
please like And subscribe for me if you
find this content helpful smash that
notification Bell so that you don't miss
out on the next video
comment below with anything that you
need help with or topics you'd like me
to cover and check out my website
consultingninja.tech with that out of
the way let's upload files using svelt
kit
I have this pretty basic application
that just has a form my default styles
inside of plus page.svelt this is what
we're looking at we just have an H1 and
an H2 that's not important just saying
welcome and what we're doing today
what's important is that we have a form
and the method is post
and we have an action equal to question
mark slash upload what this is tying to
is inside of our source routes we have a
plus
page.server.js and we have an export
const actions
inside of there we have the upload
action now if you're not familiar with
actions I will link to a video I've
previously done
so this video is assuming that you have
seen that
but this is the way that you connect a
an action a form action to a form in
your plus page Dot sveld
and when this form submits it's going to
run that action we have access to all of
the data from that form by using await
request dot form data that's going to
give us all of the data and then you can
pull out each item by doing a data.get
and then whatever the name of the input
is that you're trying to pull out of
that form super sweet and super
straightforward so inside of plus page
dot svelte let's just add a little bit
more logic here for now all that this is
doing is sending that form to our action
and then console.logging the name out
so that's pretty cool let's go ahead and
let's give that a shot and see what
happens
let's choose a file
and upload that and you'll see
everything goes through nothing happens
apart from the URL changing in the back
end the server.js file is
console.logging the file that I just
selected persist1.png
what if we wanted to do some checking
now I am going to do a longer video on
some cool form stuff but I had a request
for this and so I'm just going to go
over some of the basic stuff that you
would want to do in this particular
scenario
so some things that we would want to do
would include
checking the file extension
so if you're wanting to upload an image
file what we would want to do here is
Let's Make A const called file types
and that's going to equal an array
and the array is going to be a list of
all of the file types the extensions
that we want the file to be if it's not
one of these extensions then we're going
to bail out so let's go ahead and make
that list I'm doing Dot PNG
dot GIF let's do Tiff and let's just do
a JPG
those are pretty standard
and then let's go ahead and create a
let a variable to hold the status
includes file type
and this will start off as false
and then let's just make a little for
Loop
let
I equal to zero I less than
file types dot length I plus plus the
old standard for Loop
and inside of here what we're going to
do
is if
file and we're pulling that out from the
form here
the input name is file upload so we're
getting the form data and then we're
pulling out the file using data.get
and then we're going to check if file
Dot
ends
with
file types the the array of file types
sub the current element that we're
looking at so we're just going to go
through these one at a time we're going
to first look at PNG then GIF then Tiff
then jpeg
and if that's true
then what we're going to do is
set includes file type to true
and then break
like that
and then just outside of that for Loop
what we would want to do here is if
includes file type and then we want to
check if it's not
so if that still Falls then what we're
going to do is use a built-in svelt kit
piece of functionality called fail so
we're going to return a fail
it's a function that we run and it takes
a status so let's give it a 500 a server
error and then it also takes something
to return back to our plus page Dot
sveld and in this case let's just say
error
true and this is an object and whatever
you send back in fail or in this case if
this does not send then what we're going
to send is this object with the success
of true
whatever you send back has to be
serializable which means it needs to be
able to run through a
json.stringify without any errors most
of the cases that's not going to be a
problem if you deal with anything using
like a big int really really really
large numbers
that will not work out of the box and so
that would fail
and then we need to import a fail in
order to make use of it so we import
fail
from
from at sign
svelt JS slash kit
so when we send our form action to this
Handler
it is going to check if the file type if
the file extension is in this array and
if it's not it's going to return an
error if it is it's going to return
success
so let's save that and now in our plus
page that's felt let's go ahead and make
some modifications here the first thing
is in order to make use of the form data
coming back we have to do the old export
let form up inside of a script tag and
that's going to give us access to any
form data that's coming back from that
action
we already have it hooked up to the to
the action here by using this action
equals question mark upload
if if this is the default action meaning
you don't have it named inside of your
plus page.server.js then you would leave
that off and it would just happen
automatically after you put the method
equal to post again if you're not
familiar with how that works I will link
to a video in the description of this
one
but let's add a little bit more logic in
here
just below the H2 saying upload files
let's make an if
so hashtag if
form question mark dot error
so here is one for
if there's an error let's say
all we're checking for in this
particular case is the file format and
so if it's not in there then we're going
to say
failed to upload
comma wrong format
and then let's copy this
and paste it
and let's make another one and change
the error if form question mark
dot success
then we want to say
file uploaded
like that
give that a save and now let's go ahead
and give this a try
so click the choose file button and if I
didn't point this out I don't think I
did in order to upload a file inside of
your form you just make an input with a
type of file
and that gives you the browser default
choose file button and then once you
choose it
in this case I'm going to choose this
text file
that I created and open that and then it
puts the name of the file in there
so let's go ahead and hit upload and
again as soon as I hit this it's going
to run that action
and since dot txt is not included in our
list of acceptable file types we
actually get that server error back and
we have made use of the form the export
let form to grab that returning form
data which was just the object with the
error equals true and it says Hey fail
to upload wrong format
so let's try again using something that
is acceptable here I have a DOT PNG file
and so I'll open that and click upload
and
voila upload was successful but as far
as storing that in the database you
could connect this to a mongodb and
upload it that way you could connect
this to SQL and upload it that way right
from your server action if you had this
deployed on versel you could make use of
a serverless function to send it to a
database you have running somewhere so
there's so many possibilities this is
how you would do that part and then you
just store it in whatever database it is
that you'd like to use I hope that you
have found this video helpful if you did
please like And subscribe comment below
with what you think of form actions and
how easy it is to upload files in svelt
kit and stay tuned for more great form
content I have another great video
coming soon
as always have a great day